    In its simplest form Crimson Calendars is the confluence of 
two separate APIs, the first being CS50 Events and the other
Google Calendar.  The intended use is to allow users to add 
events to their Google Calendars in a fully automated 
fashion as well as view the result, all on a single website
. There are three primary pages, in that each is viewable 
by a user, on the site. The first is the homepage, index.php,
upon allowing access to one’s Google Calendar information 
this is the page to which they are transferred. The next is 
the Events Page, which lists events which may be added to one’s
calendar. The third, final, and rather auxiliary page is 
the list of Calendars which the site draws from. This is 
purely for user benefits. This specification will provide
 a guide on the basic methodology of using the site.

    Upon entering the URL of Crimson Calendars into one’s 
browser the user is taken to allow the site access to 
their Google calendar through signing in using their 
Google username and password and clicking to allow Crimson
Calendars to view their information.  An important note 
is that the information that Crimson Calendars accesses 
is from the primary calendar resource, which generally 
contains all the information in an individual’s Google 
Calendar, however it is distinctly possible that no 
events will be loaded if the primary calendar is empty.  
Though this is a potential error it helps to make the 
API calls on the site far more efficient.

Upon arriving at the homepage after authenticating through 
the Google window one should see their calendar information 
displayed in the chart that dominates most the page. The page
is constructed such that days of the week increase vertically
while hours of the day (in 24hr format) increase horizontally
. Both recurring and single instance events should be displayed 
on this calendar, with no differentiation made between them. 
All-day events will be marked as beginning at 0:00. No end 
times are yet marked on this calendar and all event start 
times are rounded down to the hour. This page is thus for 
the most part purely informative. By click on either 'next week'
or 'previous week' (note: refreshing will cause the calendar dates to 
 change) a user can navigate to furture and past weeks
with the date of each monday being displayed above the calendar.


    There are two other pages to which a user can navigate, 
the first of which is the calendars page. This page is meant
again to be purely informational, providing users with the 
extensive list of what calendars are used to gather data 
about the vents display on the events page( covered later). 
This list is meant to empower users to be able to quickly
see whether or not the data which they are interested in
is available. As this page is non-interactive there are 
no features which a user needs to understand, aside from the
 links to other page listed at the top of the page, which link
 to the events page and the home page, respectively. 

    The third and final page is by far the most significant. 
By clicking the See Events link at the top of the page the
user navigate to a page which display all of that days 
events.  The user then should be able to navigate forward
and backward through days using the ‘next’ and ‘previous’
buttons, while the date of those events is listed at top.
The displayed date is the date which the user
is currently view events for. By clicking add the user
is returned to the home page and after by clicking 
the ‘add selected events’ link the event is displayed
in the calendar chart. If the user refreshes the page 
instead the same request is resent and thus the event 
would be added in duplicate.  

    As is plainly evident the usage of this site is built to
 be very simplistic. Any user should be capable of adding 
 a desired event with a modicum of effort. There is however
, room for improvement in terms of practical usability of
the site. 

